

About setup.py/Exception/Logging folders -intiations
...
Hello guys.

So we are going to continue the discussion with respect to our end to end project.

Already in our previous video, we have done this entire setup.py file.

We have written the code.

Now we are going to focus on creating our logging pipeline.

So first of all, we'll go ahead and set up our logging pipeline.

And then we'll go ahead with the exception pipeline.

So inside this logging pipeline already my underscore underscore init underscore underscore dot pi file

is there.

So this will also be created as a package.

So here I'm actually going to create a file which is like logger dot pi.

Now after I create our logger dot pi file I am just going to go ahead and copy some important information

over here with respect to the code.

So first of all I'm going to go ahead and import logging.

And here I'm going to probably go ahead and give my logging configuration.

You know and this is really important because with respect to every execution of our modules, it is

always necessary that we try to log some information so that if there is an error that comes, we will

be able to debug it very much in a very easy way.

Right.

Then we are going to import OS and then from date time I'm going to import date time.

Okay.

So this will also be imported.

Okay.

Then I'm going to go ahead and create my log file format.

So let's say my log file format will be I'll be using a F string over here.

And this will basically use like date time dot now okay.

Date time dot now.

And here I will be using some time stamp like kind of thing str f of time and some time format.

Let's say the first one will be nothing.

But with respect to my month, my day year okay, so this will basically be the format that we are going

to use it.

And I'm going to use underscore underscore in between so that, you know, you'll be able to see in

that same way, right, how your file should basically look like.

So percentile and percentile d percentile y.

And let's say I'm also going to use percentile h underscore hour.

Then it should be coming with my uh sorry minutes.

And then I will also go ahead and write my seconds.

Okay.

And this will be my log file.

That will be the name that I'm actually going to use for this entire log file.

And this will basically be present inside.

Sorry.

This bracket should be inside over here.

So that will be my log file that I'm going to probably create.

So this will basically be my entire log file file name okay.

And with respect to the log file name I will also go ahead and create some log path where it should

probably create the logs.

So here I'm going to write OS dot path dot join.

And here I'm going to write OS dot get cw d get current current working directory.

And then I'm going to basically go ahead and execute.

I'll create a folder called as logs.

And this logs folder.

Also you'll be able to see it once I probably execute this you will be able to see that logs folder

also getting created right.

And then I will also go ahead and mention my log file okay.

So this is the logs path that I'm actually going to create.

And then I will go ahead and write OS dot make directory.

Okay.

Make dir says okay.

And this will basically create my um, the log directory itself.

And I'll say hey exist.

If it exists then do not create it again.

Okay.

So that is the reason we say it as exist underscore okay is equal to true.

And then finally I will go ahead and create one more variable like log underscore file underscore path.

And here I'm going to define my own dot path dot join.

And finally you'll be able to see that I'll give my logs path along with my log file.

Right.

So this will basically be my total path that you will be able to see.

Right.

Once with the logs path and what file I really want to create, this file will be basically getting

the recent date time, uh, format.

And that will be the name that will be present in this particular file itself.

Right.

And finally, uh, if you know some basic idea of logging, uh, if you have learned this in Python,

we basically go ahead and set up our basic configuration file name will be nothing, but it will be

log file.

Then we keep a format of our asset time line number.

We provide this information right.

This basic information is required with respect to the line number.

Then we have this name level name and message okay.

So these all are my basic information.

And here the level that we are going to basically say is that Logging.info I can also set this up to

logging dot error.

It can be different different information.

But since my logging.info all the information I specifically want, I'm keeping it as logging.info itself.

Right?

So perfect.

This is about my logging details.

Now what I can actually do is that I can import this logger.py file and I can call, you know, with

respect to this logging itself, right, to log any details that I really want.

If I just go ahead and write logging.info with the kind of message that I really want, it will be able

to log each and everything.

Right?

So this is the basic logging fundamentals, and here is the entire configuration that I have set up

in this particular file right now.

Coming to the next one that is called as exception.

So here also I will go ahead and set up my exception dot p y.

So let's go ahead and do this, because whenever we face any exception, we should be able to create

our own custom exception to handle it okay.

So for that I will be writing this particular code.

Please focus on this code.

So here what I'm doing is that I'm creating a class which is called as Network Security Exception.

Here is my init method where we are taking two values like error message and error details which is

coming from system.

So that is the reason we have imported system over here.

And we are taking three information.

This two information is not required.

The third information which talks about our execution underscore DB which gives our entire execution

details the error details.

So that is the reason we are writing error underscore details dot x x underscore info.

This error details is basically coming as a cis parameter right.

It is a type of cis basically from the system itself.

Right.

Then my line number will be available inside this particular variable.

So I'm using this line number.

Even my file name will be available inside this particular variable x underscore TB dot tb dot frame

f dot f underscore code underscore file underscore name.

So these are some basic information that you should definitely know related to exception.

And these are the internal details with respect to the exception that you really have.

So this class will basically raise our custom exception.

Right then we are also overriding one functionality that is underscore underscore str.

Just saying that hey error occurred in this Python script.

Uh line number and error message.

Right.

And format I'm just going to use my file name, line number and whatever error message that we are facing.

Right.

So let's try this out and let's see whether it is working or not.

Now I also want to make sure that I probably do some kind of logging over here.

Right.

So logging is also required.

Right.

So what I am actually going to do is that I'm going to go ahead and write from network security.

I'll import the logging part.

Also see logging is basically present over here.

Right.

So if I say from network security dot logging I'm going to import logger.

Right.

So here I will go ahead and write network security dot if I go ahead and see logging?

If I go ahead and write, logging is my folder right?

I'm going to import logger.

Right.

So logger is over here.

I will also go ahead and write this particular try catch block right.

So I also want to check whether logging is working.

We're just testing to check both logging and exception should work right.

So here if underscore underscore name is equal to underscore underscore main try this okay.

So here I will say um log logger logger.info.

Let's see what is the function inside this.

So if I say logger dot logger.

So this is my entire logger.py file.

Right now if I really want to use the logs how do I write it down.

So I can just go ahead and write logger dot and see which function is basically available over here.

Right.

So if I go ahead and say logging see because logging is one variable over here.

Right.

Logging.

Right.

So logger dot logging logging and dot if I go ahead and write my info, write info and here I will say

I'll just give some message.

Enter the try block.

Okay, let's see whether this log will be created or not.

But the kind of operation that I'm trying is nothing but one divided by zero.

And you know that this is if you just have a basic idea about, uh, you know, what is division by

zero error, right?

We will definitely face an error over here.

And this is the prerequisite that is required at least some information about Python programming language.

Right.

So one divided by zero is nothing, but it is giving you an exception over here.

And with respect to this particular exception here, you will be able to see that it is a division by

zero error.

Okay.

So here you can see this will be not printed or this will not be printed obviously.

And here I can say that, uh, this information will definitely not be printed because an exception

is basically getting handled over here.

We are raising an exception.

We are catching this exception and we are raising it with the network security exception.

Right.

So guys now the code that I've actually written let's go ahead and check for logging and uh, exception

handling whether it is working fine or not.

Okay.

So I'm just going to go ahead and open my terminal.

Let me do one thing.

Let me open my own command prompt.

Always make sure that you have to be in the venv environment.

Now just to check exception handling, I have to make sure that I have to run this file.

Right exception.py.

Now this exception.py is in which folder it is nothing but inside the exception folder, right?

So what we are basically going to do is that first of all, I will go ahead and go to my network security

folder.

Right.

So if you go ahead and see logging an exception is inside this network security folder.

Right.

So I will say hey CD network network security right.

I'm going to go inside this particular folder and then I will go ahead inside my exception folder.

After going inside my exception folder I will go ahead and write Python exception.py right.

Now this is the first issue okay.

I have got an issue and it is showing.

Hey I'm getting an error in line 18.

Okay, so exception is basically coming in line 18.

What is that?

Okay.

In this particular line in my logger.logging.info only, I'm getting an exception.

Even it did not go to this particular line.

See as soon as I got error in this line you can see over here I am getting type error over here and

it shows this exception message error occurred in Python script.

So and so line number 18 and error message is int object is not callable.

Okay.

Now let's understand what is the mistake that we have done.

Okay.

Now I'm not going to edit this part because this is really important right.

So I made one mistake.

Instead of writing capital info I have to write small info.

Now this should be running fine.

Okay, now I fix this exception.

Okay, but what about the next exception?

So here initially we got this exception.

It came outside of this and it caught.

It was caught by our network security exception class that we have defined.

And this is our own custom exception that we have defined right.

Now let's go ahead and run this.

Okay.

If I go ahead and run Python exception dot p y.

Now you can see that I'm getting a division zero by error.

Now, with respect to this division zero by error, I can see that error occurred in this particular

file name.

And all the things is basically there and it is nothing, but it is also displaying the error message

how this is getting displayed.

Because we have written a custom function over here.

Right.

So that to display whenever we get an exception, how the message needs to be displayed right now this

is fine.

That basically is my exception is basically getting handled.

It is also raising.

It is also displaying the proper message.

But still we did not find out whether this logging info has been put up in form of some file.

So here you can see in our exception folder there is one logs file.

Now inside this logs file you will be able to see hey this is the information over here.

Enter try block.

And that is what we were trying to display it over here right now.

The thing is that the logs folder has created inside this exception folder.

Why?

Because we are executing the code inside the exception folder.

Right?

We were trying to run this exception dot pi.

And here you can see that this is the log file that is getting created.

So both the functionality is working.

It is not necessary that we always need to run the file inside the exception block.

When we create our final project, we will be running the file outside this particular block, right?

My training pipeline should get initiated from outside this project, and then it should probably go

inside that.

And wherever we are calling exception handling and logging we can basically use that.

Okay.

So right now everything is working fine.

What I'm actually going to do is that since this logs folder is not required because when we work for

the entire project, it will be created in the outside location.

Okay.

But here we have tested both the logging and exception is working absolutely fine.

Okay.

So this was our exception handling everything.

As such, I will remove this code because we will not be running this particular code.

If you want to run it, you can just go ahead and just write this particular code okay.

So I'll just keep this and make sure that I'll commit this so that you can go ahead and check it out.

Okay.

Now uh, quickly I will do CD dot dot CD dot dot.

I'll go back to my main parent folder and then let me just go ahead and commit this git add dot git

commit minus m exception handling and logging completed.

Okay.

Then finally python sorry git push minus u from origin to main.

So here you can see the entire pushes basically happen.

Right now I can go ahead and check up in my GitHub.

I think it should be there and it will be definitely there.

That is the reason it is showing me successful.

So I hope you like this particular video here.

In this video we have discussed about both logging and exception, uh, the kind of code that I have

written.

I have also explained to you with respect to exception, this is the generic code that we basically

write right with respect to the configuration.

And it looks absolutely fine.

And this is my, uh, normal exception.

Remember how to probably import this, uh, and uh, how to probably use this entire logging in short.

Right.

So yes, this was it from my side.

I will see you in the next video.

Thank you.